Grafana Cloud Enterprise Open source Introduction This section provides basic information about observability topics in general and Grafana in particular. These topics will help people who are just starting out with observability and monitoring. Grafana Open Source Grafana open source is open source visualization and analytics software. It allows you to query, visualize, alert on, and explore your metrics, logs, and traces no matter where they are stored. It provides you with tools to turn your time-series database (TSDB) data into insightful graphs and visualizations. Grafana Loki Grafana Loki is an open-source set of components that can be composed into a fully featured logging stack. For more information, refer to Loki documentation . Grafana Tempo Grafana Tempo is an open source, easy-to-use and high-volume distributed tracing backend. For more information, refer to Tempo documentation . Grafana Mimir Grafana Mimir is an open source software project that provides a scalable long-term storage for Prometheus. For more information about Grafana Mimir, refer to Grafana Mimir documentation . Grafana Pyroscope Grafana Pyroscope is an open source software project for aggregating continuous profiling data. Continuous profiling is an observability signal that helps you understand your workload’s resources usage. For more information, refer to Grafana Pyroscope documentation . Grafana Oncall Grafana OnCall is an open source incident response management tool built to help teams improve their collaboration and resolve incidents faster. For more information about Grafana OnCall, refer to Grafana OnCall documentation . Grafana Cloud Grafana Cloud is a highly available, fast, fully managed OpenSaaS logging and metrics platform. It is everything you love about Grafana, but Grafana Labs hosts it for you and handles all the headaches. Grafana Enterprise Grafana Enterprise is the commercial edition of Grafana that includes additional features not found in the open source version. Building on everything you already know and love about Grafana, Grafana Enterprise adds enterprise data sources, advanced authentication options, more permission controls, 24x7x365 support, and training from the core Grafana team. Learn more about Grafana Enterprise and contact the Grafana Labs Sales Team to purchase an Enterprise license. You can also obtain a trial license before the purchase.