Last update: April 17, 2024 Algorithms for Competitive Programming The goal of this project is to translate the wonderful resource https://e-maxx.ru/algo which provides descriptions of many algorithms and data structures especially popular in field of competitive programming. Moreover we want to improve the collected knowledge by extending the articles and adding new articles to the collection. We're an ad-free, volunteer-run website that's free for everyone. Users can contribute articles or help sponsor bounties on articles for greater algorithmic coverage. Your help is greatly appreciated. Compiled pages are published at https://cp-algorithms.com/ . Become a Contributor Changelog August, 2025: Overhaul of CP-Algorithms donation system . Please consider supporting us, so that we can grow! August, 2025: Launched a Discord server ! October, 2024: Welcome new maintainers: jxu , mhayter and kostero ! October, 15, 2024: GitHub pages based mirror is now served at https://gh.cp-algorithms.com/ , and an auxiliary competitive programming library is available at https://lib.cp-algorithms.com/ . July 16, 2024: Major overhaul of the Finding strongly connected components / Building condensation graph article. June 26, 2023: Added automatic RSS feeds for new articles and updates in articles . December 20, 2022: The repository name and the owning organizations were renamed! Now the repo is located at https://github.com/cp-algorithms/cp-algorithms . It is recommended to update the upstream link in your local repositories, if you have any. October 31, 2022: It is now possible to select and copy $\LaTeX$ source code of formulas within the articles. June 8, 2022: Tags are enabled. Each article is now marked whether it is translated or original, overall tag info is present in the tag index . For translated articles, clicking on From: X tag would lead to the original article. June 7, 2022: Date of last commit and author list with contribution percentage is tracked for each page. June 5, 2022: Enabled content tabs and sidebar navigation. The navigation is moved to a separate page and its structure should be adjusted in navigation.md whenever a new article is created or an old one is moved. January 16, 2022: Switched to the MkDocs site generator with the Material for MkDocs theme, which give the website a more modern look, brings a couple of new features (dark mode, better search, ...), makes the website more stable (in terms of rendering math formulas), and makes it easier to contribute. New articles Full list of updates: Commit History Full list of articles: Navigation