Try HCP Terraform Sign up for HCP Terraform for free and start managing infrastructure with your team. Build, change, and destroy infrastructure with Terraform. Start here to learn the basics of Terraform with your favorite cloud provider. Create, manage, and destroy AWS infrastructure using Terraform. Step-by-step, command-line tutorials will walk you through the Terraform basics for the first time. Build, change, and destroy Azure infrastructure using Terraform. Step-by-step, command-line tutorials will walk you through the Terraform basics for the first time. Collaborate on version-controlled configuration using HCP Terraform. Follow this track to build, change, and destroy infrastructure using remote runs and state. Build, change, and destroy Docker infrastructure using Terraform. Step-by-step, command-line tutorials will walk you through the Terraform basics for the first time. Build, change, and destroy Google Cloud Platform (GCP) infrastructure using Terraform. Step-by-step, command-line tutorials will walk you through the Terraform basics for the first time. Build, change, and destroy a virtual cloud network and subnet on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) using Terraform. Step-by-step, command-line tutorials will walk you through the Terraform basics for the first time. Try the newest tutorials for common Terraform tasks and use cases. Write Terraform Tests Write tests to validate the behavior of your Terraform module configuration. Enable self-service workflows with Vault-backed dynamic credentials Manage dynamic credentials with an HCP Terraform project. Create trust relationships for a single workspace, an entire project, and provision infrastructure with a no-code module. Use health assessments to detect infrastructure drift Enable and use HCP Terraform health assessments to detect infrastructure changes outside the Terraform workflow. Manage hosted Apache Kafka with the Confluent Terraform provider Use the Confluent provider to create Apache Kafka clusters, topics, and service accounts using Terraform. Detect infrastructure drift and enforce policies Use HCP Terraform to enforce policies and detect infrastructure configuration drift. Create and use no-code modules Use HCP Terraform no-code modules to let users deploy resources without writing Terraform configuration. Prepare for Terraform certifications with our prep materials. Prepare for the Terraform Associate 004 Certification Exam Prepare for the Terraform Associate exam. Choose to follow an in-depth guide or to review select exam topics depending on the kind of preparation support you need. Then review sample questions to learn what to expect on exam day. Prepare for the Terraform Authoring and Operations Professional Certification Exam Prepare for your Terraform Professional certification exam. Choose to follow an in-depth guide, or review select exam topics depending on the kind of preparation support you need. Use the Terraform Plugin Framework to build providers that use common Go conventions. Call APIs with Custom Framework Providers In these tutorials, learn how Terraform uses providers to interact with target APIs. Then, build a custom provider based on the new Terraform Plugin Framework.